README.md, before:

# AIM to Markdown Converter

A Python utility to convert old AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) conversation logs from HTML format to clean, readable Markdown files.

## Features

- Parses AIM HTML conversation logs exported from the AOL Instant Messenger client
- Converts messages to well-formatted Markdown
- Preserves timestamps and sender information
- Handles system messages (e.g., "user signed off")
- Escapes special Markdown characters to prevent formatting issues
- Supports batch processing of multiple files
- Intelligently groups consecutive messages from the same sender (within 2-minute intervals)
- Extracts conversation dates from filenames
- **AI-powered intelligent filename generation** using Google's Gemini AI
- Generates descriptive filenames in standardized format: `YYYY-MM-DD Title [participants]`
- **YAML frontmatter support** for Obsidian and other markdown tools

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Citizen-T/aim-to-md.git
cd aim-to-md
```

2. Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended):
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setup

### Google AI API Key

This tool uses Google's Gemini AI to generate intelligent conversation titles. You'll need to:

1. Get a Google AI API key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey)
2. Copy the `.env-template` file to `.env`:
   ```bash
   cp .env-template .env
   ```
3. Edit the `.env` file and replace `your-api-key-here` with your actual API key:
   ```
   GEMINI_API_KEY=your-actual-api-key-here
   ```

**Note**: The API key is required when no output filename is specified (using the `-o` option). The tool will generate intelligent filenames using AI when this key is provided.

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Convert a single AIM HTML file to Markdown:

```bash
python -m src.main "path/to/conversation.htm"
```

When no output filename is specified, the tool automatically generates an intelligent filename using AI in the format:
```
YYYY-MM-DD Title [user1, user2].md
```

Examples:
- `2025-08-04 Planning first trip to beach [Alice, Bob].md`
- `2021-02-20 Birthday wishes for Alice [Alice, Bob].md`
- `2020-09-22 Catching up during COVID lockdown [Alice, Bob].md`

### Specify Output Location

```bash
python -m src.main "conversation.htm" -o "output.md"
```

### Process Multiple Files

Convert all HTML files in a directory:

```bash
python -m src.main "path/to/aim-logs/"
```

Process directories recursively:

```bash
python -m src.main "path/to/aim-logs/" -r
```

### YAML Frontmatter Support

The converter automatically includes YAML frontmatter with the conversation date when a date can be extracted from the filename. This is particularly useful for Obsidian and other markdown tools that support frontmatter:

```markdown
---
date: 2004-05-18
---

# AIM Conversation - May 18, 2004

**Alice** (10:57:26 PM):
> Hey there!
```

Files without extractable dates will not include frontmatter:

```markdown
**Alice** (10:57:26 PM):
> Hey there!
```

## Example Output

Input HTML:
```html
<B><FONT COLOR="#0000ff">Alice<!-- (10:57:26 PM)--></B></FONT>: <FONT>Hey</FONT><BR>
<B><FONT COLOR="#0000ff">Alice<!-- (10:57:28 PM)--></B></FONT>: <FONT>How's it going?</FONT><BR>
<B><FONT COLOR="#0000ff">Alice<!-- (11:00:22 PM)--></B></FONT>: <FONT>Guess you fell asleep</FONT><BR>
<!-- System message -->
Alice signed off at 11:15:30 PM
```

Output Markdown:
```markdown
---
date: 2004-05-18
---

# AIM Conversation - May 18, 2004

**Alice** (10:57:26 PM):
> Hey
> How's it going?

**Alice** (11:00:22 PM):
> Guess you fell asleep

> [!NOTE]
> Alice signed off at 11:15:30 PM
```

The converter intelligently groups messages from the same sender when they occur within 2 minutes of each other, showing only the first timestamp. Messages separated by longer gaps start new groups. System messages (like sign-offs) are displayed as callout blocks to distinguish them from regular messages.

## Running Tests

Run all tests:
```bash
python -m pytest
```

Run with coverage:
```bash
python -m pytest -v
```

## Project Structure

```
aim-to-md/
├── src/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── aim_parser.py      # HTML parsing logic
│   ├── markdown_converter.py  # Markdown conversion logic
│   └── main.py            # CLI application
├── tests/
│   ├── fixtures/
│   │   └── sample-conversation.htm  # Sample AIM conversation for testing
│   ├── test_aim_parser.py
│   ├── test_markdown_converter.py
│   └── test_integration.py
├── aim2md.py              # Entry point script
└── README.md
```

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

Commit message:

feat: Added support for AI generated summaries in frontmatter.

README.md, after:

# AIM to Markdown Converter

A Python utility to convert old AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) conversation logs from HTML format to clean, readable Markdown files.

## Features

- Parses AIM HTML conversation logs exported from the AOL Instant Messenger client
- Converts messages to well-formatted Markdown
- Preserves timestamps and sender information
- Handles system messages (e.g., "user signed off")
- Escapes special Markdown characters to prevent formatting issues
- Supports batch processing of multiple files
- Intelligently groups consecutive messages from the same sender (within 2-minute intervals)
- Extracts conversation dates from filenames
- **AI-powered intelligent filename generation** using Google's Gemini AI
- Generates descriptive filenames in standardized format: `YYYY-MM-DD Title [participants]`
- **YAML frontmatter support** with AI-generated descriptions for Obsidian and other markdown tools

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Citizen-T/aim-to-md.git
cd aim-to-md
```

2. Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended):
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setup

### Google AI API Key

This tool uses Google's Gemini AI to generate intelligent conversation titles. You'll need to:

1. Get a Google AI API key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey)
2. Copy the `.env-template` file to `.env`:
   ```bash
   cp .env-template .env
   ```
3. Edit the `.env` file and replace `your-api-key-here` with your actual API key:
   ```
   GEMINI_API_KEY=your-actual-api-key-here
   ```

**Note**: The API key is required when no output filename is specified (using the `-o` option). The tool will generate intelligent filenames using AI when this key is provided.

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Convert a single AIM HTML file to Markdown:

```bash
python -m src.main "path/to/conversation.htm"
```

When no output filename is specified, the tool automatically generates an intelligent filename using AI in the format:
```
YYYY-MM-DD Title [user1, user2].md
```

Examples:
- `2025-08-04 Planning first trip to beach [Alice, Bob].md`
- `2021-02-20 Birthday wishes for Alice [Alice, Bob].md`
- `2020-09-22 Catching up during COVID lockdown [Alice, Bob].md`

### Specify Output Location

```bash
python -m src.main "conversation.htm" -o "output.md"
```

### Process Multiple Files

Convert all HTML files in a directory:

```bash
python -m src.main "path/to/aim-logs/"
```

Process directories recursively:

```bash
python -m src.main "path/to/aim-logs/" -r
```

### YAML Frontmatter Support

The converter automatically includes YAML frontmatter when a date can be extracted from the filename. When using intelligent filename generation (no `-o` option specified), it also includes an AI-generated description. This is particularly useful for Obsidian and other markdown tools that support frontmatter:

**With intelligent filename generation (default behavior):**
```markdown
---
date: 2004-05-18
description: In this conversation Alice and Bob catch up on recent events, discuss their weekend plans, and share updates about their work projects.
---

# AIM Conversation - May 18, 2004

**Alice** (10:57:26 PM):
> Hey there!
```

**With manual output filename (using `-o` option):**
```markdown
---
date: 2004-05-18
---

# AIM Conversation - May 18, 2004

**Alice** (10:57:26 PM):
> Hey there!
```

Files without extractable dates will not include frontmatter:

```markdown
**Alice** (10:57:26 PM):
> Hey there!
```

The AI-generated description summarizes the main topics and themes of the conversation, making it easier for other LLMs and tools to understand the content without reading the entire conversation. This feature only activates when using intelligent filename generation, which requires a `GEMINI_API_KEY`.

## Example Output

Input HTML:
```html
<B><FONT COLOR="#0000ff">Alice<!-- (10:57:26 PM)--></B></FONT>: <FONT>Hey</FONT><BR>
<B><FONT COLOR="#0000ff">Alice<!-- (10:57:28 PM)--></B></FONT>: <FONT>How's it going?</FONT><BR>
<B><FONT COLOR="#0000ff">Alice<!-- (11:00:22 PM)--></B></FONT>: <FONT>Guess you fell asleep</FONT><BR>
<!-- System message -->
Alice signed off at 11:15:30 PM
```

Output Markdown (with intelligent filename generation):
```markdown
---
date: 2004-05-18
description: Alice attempts to start a conversation but receives no response, eventually realizing the other person may have fallen asleep before signing off.
---

# AIM Conversation - May 18, 2004

**Alice** (10:57:26 PM):
> Hey
> How's it going?

**Alice** (11:00:22 PM):
> Guess you fell asleep

> [!NOTE]
> Alice signed off at 11:15:30 PM
```

The converter intelligently groups messages from the same sender when they occur within 2 minutes of each other, showing only the first timestamp. Messages separated by longer gaps start new groups. System messages (like sign-offs) are displayed as callout blocks to distinguish them from regular messages.

## Running Tests

Run all tests:
```bash
python -m pytest
```

Run with coverage:
```bash
python -m pytest -v
```

## Project Structure

```
aim-to-md/
├── src/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── aim_parser.py      # HTML parsing logic
│   ├── markdown_converter.py  # Markdown conversion logic
│   └── main.py            # CLI application
├── tests/
│   ├── fixtures/
│   │   └── sample-conversation.htm  # Sample AIM conversation for testing
│   ├── test_aim_parser.py
│   ├── test_markdown_converter.py
│   └── test_integration.py
├── aim2md.py              # Entry point script
└── README.md
```

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.
